In this lesson as promised we'll be setting up rendering for our location messages to render a link
instead of showing the entire.
You are real.
Now to get that done we're gonna want to render a separate template which means we're gonna want to
create a separate event that the server sends to the client so we can have separate logic for that.
So instead of message we'll use something else like location message.
Now getting this done is gonna be your first of two challenges for the lesson and the reason I'm breaking
it up into two challenges is that the second challenge already contains quite a bit.
So this first one will be a little light.
Then the second one will contain a bit more work for you to do right here.
Your goal is to create that separate event for location sharing messages so the server is going to omit
the location message event when it's trying to share one of those Google Maps.
You are owls and it should omit the event with the U.R.L. like it's doing now.
Then on the client in this file you want to set up a listener that runs some code when it receives the
location message event and what you want to do for the moment is just print the you are real to the
console.
Now that's not rendering it in a new template.
That is the second challenge we'll get to that shortly down below.
Test your work so you should be able to share a location and you should no longer see it showing up
up above you should only see it showing up in the console down below.
Since when you share a location it should fire your new event handler and not the one right here.
So take some time to knock that out and test your work when you're done come back and click play.
All right.
How'd that go.
Let's kick things off by making that change to the server.
So over in index dot J S we get the location somewhere over here send a location.
This is what we want to change right now we are emitting message from server to client and we use that
for a lot of other things where we have text we want to show.
In this case the data is a bit different so we're going to emit a separate event that would be location
message.
Now that's the only thing we need to change over here.
Not too bad over in chat.
Not J.S..
We have to listen for that event and I'm going to add that just below our listener for message.
So that would be socket dot on right here.
Location message.
Then we set up our function and we get access to our data which I will call you RL or you could call
it something similar like maps you RL and then down below.
The only thing I wanted you to do was just print it to the console.
So that's exactly what we'll do now with this in place we can test our work.
What I'm going to do is refresh the browser I'll send a regular message and it works as expected.
I'll then try to share my location and I should not see it up above.
I should only see it in the console down below.
And that is exactly what I'm getting which is great.
So now we've proven that our other event handler is running when we are getting a location that's been
shared with us and since we have separate code to run we can render a separate template including a
link with custom text and that is what we're going to focus on for the second of the two challenges.
So right here I'm going to remove the old challenge comments and I'll take some time to paste in the
new ones right here.
Your job for this second challenge is to render a new template for location messages.
We're just going to show a link that links to the Google Maps page when someone clicks it.
So right here you're gonna start by duplicating the message template in index dot HDMI all and changing
the I.D. to something that makes sense for that template as you're going to need to select it from inside
of JavaScript.
Next you're going to actually alter the templates content in that paragraph.
What you're gonna do is add a link using the A anchor element and the text for the link will be static
something like my current location and the you are real.
The H ref attribute will be dynamic.
So for the value of that you want to make sure to use that curly braces syntax.
Next up you want to move into chat not J.S. and selectively template from javascript and you want to
render the template with the Google Maps U.R.L. so that you are all that I have right here that should
find its way into the H ref attribute for the link we're creating in the new template.
Finally you're gonna make sure that template gets appended to the message list and you'll test your
work.
So over here if I send off a text message that should show up.
If I send off my location I should see a blue clickable link that brings me over to the Google Maps
page.
All right.
Take as much time as you need to get that done.
I know there are quite a few steps when you are done come back and click play.
How that go.
Let's get to it by first creating that new template and setting it up with the link.
So over in index dot HDL we'll be taking our current script element.
I'll be copying it to the clipboard and down below.
We're gonna go ahead and paste it in and right here we'll just do a little reformatting bringing it
back to what it was before.
And we do have to change the I.D. so we can target these two separately.
I'll call this one something like location message template.
Perfect.
Now when it comes to actually altering the template what I wanted you to do was to put a link inside.
So for that I would go ahead and setup and a tag opening and closing it and I would put the link text
right in between the opening and closing tags.
And for this one something like my current location would get the job done that you could have used
different text that would have been perfectly fine.
Now the attribute you have to configure is each ref.
This is the link where someone goes when they click that link.
And in this case we want them to go to a dynamic U.R.L. that will be provided to the template which
means you needed to use this syntax right inside of these double quotes.
So right here to opening curly braces followed by two closing curly braces.
And I will eventually pass in a you are well value.
Once I render this template.
Now with this in place we're actually done.
But there's one more change we can make.
It wasn't part of the challenge right here.
You can go ahead and set target equal to underscore blank.
That's going to open the link in a new tab which means that you won't leave the chat room by default
the same tab will switch from the chat room over to Google Maps which is probably not what you want.
So take a moment to add that in it's a nice user interface improvement.
Next up in chat dot Jay Yes we can move on to step number three.
We have one in two done.
We just have to select that template before we can render it.
So right here a new constant I'm going to call this location message template and I will grab it using
document dot query selector I'm going to select by I.D. and the I.D. I just picked was location message
template and then we'll go ahead and use the inner HDL prop..
Perfect.
Now that we have the template selected it's time to actually render it so down below inside of on location
message.
We want to compile the template with the data and then get it showing up at the bottom of our list.
So right here a new constant HDL equals.
Once again we need to use much dash dot render to render the template that is the location message template.
And remember we said that we're going to pass in the U.R.L. so we have to pass in our object with a
U.R.L. value.
Now we have a parameter with the same name up above so we can use the shorthand syntax for that.
And from here all we need to do is to add this HDL to the document.
So like we did above that as messages dot insert adjacent HDMI all we're going to insert our HDMI well
before the end.
So at the bottom of the list and I have the HDL in the H2 UML variable up above.
Now with this in place we should be all done and we can test our work.
So what I'm going to do is remove the challenge comments right here.
I'm going to save that chat.
J Yes and make sure my other files are saved as well.
And in the browser I'm going to refresh things.
Now I'll start with a standard message.
Something like a regular text message which does show up and don't worry I'll show you how to disable
the autocomplete since it doesn't really make sense for this field.
We'll cover that a bit later and then we're going to click send a location to test our new functionality.
Now it takes a little bit of time to get that location but once it's fetched we have our link.
And if I click that it brings me over to Google Maps in a separate tab over here I still have my chat
application in place which is great.
Now the location over here is close enough to where I actually am.
It is definitely pretty accurate.
So now that we have this in place we have a separate template rendering for those location messages
allowing us to render a nice link to the user as opposed to just dumping the U.R.L. text to the screen.
With this in place we are now done with the two challenges for this lesson and we're going to continue
on to the next lesson where the focus is going to be on timestamps.
We're going to talk about how we can set up timestamps for the messages and then get some useful time
information for when all of the messages were sent.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's go ahead and jump right in.